The BLEU score, which stands for
a Bilingual Evaluation
Understudy.
It's an algorithm that was
developed to solve some of
the most difficult problems in
NLP, including
Machine Translation.
It's evaluates the quality of
machine-translated text by
comparing a candidate
texts translation
to one or more
reference translations.
Usually, the closer the
BLEU score is to one,
the better your model is.
The closer to zero,
the worse it is.
With that said, what is
BLEU score and why is
this an important metric?
To get a BLEU score,
the candidates and
the references are
usually based on
an average of uni,
bi, try or even
four-gram precision.
To demonstrate, I'll use
uni-grams as an example.
Let's say that you have
a candidate sequence
composed of I,
I, am, I, I.
This is what your model
outputs at this step.
Then you have a
reference sequence one,
which contains the words
Younes, I am hungry.
The second reference
sequence contains the words,
he said, I am hungry.
To get the BLEU score
count how many words
and the candidates also
appear in the references.
The candidate you can see I, I,
I, I appeared four times.
Then am also appeared once.
Each word, I and am,
appears once in Reference
1, and Reference 2.
I appears once in each reference.
You're going to write
M underscore W or max
words is equal to one,
and clip the count as one.
Then sum over
the unique uni-gram
counts in the candidates.
Meaning you sum over
the unique counts in
these candidates
and you divide by
the total number of
words in the candidates.
In this case, what would that be?
Well, for the first one
you have I and am, so two.
Then you divide by
the total number of
words in the candidates,
which is five.
Two out of five. This is your
BLEU score. Makes sense?
Like anything in life.
Using the BLEU score as
an evaluation metrics
has some caveats.
For one, it doesn't
consider the semantic
meaning of the words.
It also doesn't consider the
structure of the sentence.
Imagine getting this translation,
"Ate I was hungry because."
If the reference sentence is,
I ate because I was hungry,
this would actually get
a perfect BLEU score.
BLEU score is the most
widely adapted evaluation
metric for machine translation.
But you should be aware of
these drawbacks before
you begin using it.
I'll introduce you now to
another family of
metrics called ROUGE.
It stands for Recall
Oriented Understudy for
Gisting Evaluation,
which is a mouthful.
But let's you know
right off the bat that
it's more recall-oriented
by default.
This means that it's placing
more importance on how much of
the human created reference
appears in the
machine translation.
ROUGE was originally developed to
evaluate the quality of
machine summarized texts,
but is useful for evaluating
machine translation as well.
It works by comparing
the machine texts or
system texts against
the reference texts,
which is often
created by a human.
The ROUGE score
calculates precision,
and recall for a machine
texts by counting
the n-gram overlap between
the machine texts and
a reference texts.
Recall that's an n-gram,
is a list of words that
appear next to each
other in a sentence
where the order matters.
If you have the word,
"I baked a pie," a uni-gram
can be the word baked,
and then bi-gram can be
the two words a pie.
Next, I'll show you
an example of how this
works with uni-grams.
The ROUGE family of
metrics focuses on
the n-gram overlap between
system translated texts
and the reference.
By system translated text,
I'm referring to a model
that's being trained
to do the prediction.
By reference, I'm referring to
the ideal correct sentence
that I want the model to predict.
I mentioned earlier that ROUGE is
primarily recall-oriented
by default.
What I meant by recall
on a high level,
is that if you look at all of
the words in the reference,
which is the cats had orange fur.
How many of the reference words
gets predicted by the model?
The second part of the
equation is precision,
which you can think of as
answering this question.
Of all the words that
the model predicted,
how many of them are words
that we want the
model to predict.
To calculate the recall for
your model translated text.
For each word in the
true reference sentence,
"The cats had orange fur," counts
how many of them are also
predicted by the model?
The, appears in the
model prediction.
Cats, appears in the
prediction as well, had,
appears, orange also
appears, fur, also appears.
In this case, all five of
the reference words are also
predicted by the model.
For the example system texts,
the cat had many orange fur
and the reference texts,
the cats had orange fur.
For the example system texts,
the cats had many orange fur
and the reference texts,
the cats had orange fur.
You can see that
there are a total of
five overlapping uni-grams and
five total words
in the reference.
This would give you a recall
of one, a high score.
If your model wanted to
have a high recall score,
it could just guess hundreds
of thousands of words,
and it would have a
good chance of guessing
all the words in the
true reference sentence.
But what does that
actually tell you?
This is where precision comes in.
To calculate precision, look at
all the words that are
predicted by your model.
In this example, the cats
had striped orange fur.
How many of these predicted words
actually show up in
the correct sentence?
Which is represented by
the reference sentence?
Over here, the, appears
in the reference,
cat, appears in the reference,
had, appears in the reference.
Striped, was predicted
by the model,
but does not appear in
the reference sentence.
Orange, appears in the
reference, and so does fur.
Out of the six words
predicted by the model,
five of them appear in
the reference sentence.
This means that your model has
a precision of five
divided by six,
or roughly 83 percent of
the words were relevant.
There are a few
considerations to be
aware of when using
a ROUGE score.
For one, it focuses on
comparing n-gram counts
to a yield score,
which doesn't allow for
meaningful evaluation of topics.
What this means is that it can
only count word overlap
as a measure of
similarity and misses
any broader contexts
that words are describing.
For example, if two sentences
being compared were,
I am a fruit-field pastry,
and I'm a jelly donut.
ROUGE would have no way
of understanding that
the two sentences actually
mean the same thing.
Because of this limitation,
it's can take a similar
or synonymous concepts
into consideration when
the score is computed.
A low ROUGE score may not reflect
that a model translated
text actually captured
all the same relevant content as
the reference texts
just because it's
had a large difference
in n-gram overlap.
But ROUGE scores are
still very useful for
evaluation of machine
translations and summaries.
These are just a couple of
caveats to keep in mind as
you start taking your
own ROUGE scores.
Here's a quick recap.
You now are familiar with
the blue square algorithm,
which was created to evaluate
machine translations and how it
operates by comparing
candidate texts
against one or more
reference translations.
By taking the average of
the n-grams in the candidates and
comparing that to the average of
the n-grams in the
reference translations.
Then clipping this average
to fit on a scale of 0-1.
You are now aware of a couple of
drawbacks to using
BLEU score as well,
ROUGE 2.0 is also
a valuable metric for measuring
the relevance of
machine translations.
That works by counting
overlapping uni or bi-grams
in a machine translated text
and comparing them to
a reference texts,
which is usually
created by a human.